The booming development of digital economy has brought new impetus to global economic growth. In the context of rising international trade protectionism and frequent trade frictions, what impact does the integration of Chinese manufacturing enterprises and the Internet have on their innovation and export is a question to be answered. We extend the Bustos(2011) model by incorporating the internetization and innovation choice behavior of enterprises into the framework of heterogeneity. Based on a sample of data matched from 2010—2013 China Industrial Enterprise database, Sina Weibo and Google patent, we reveal the impact of enterprise internetization on the innovation and export of Chinese enterprises from a micro perspective. Our findings are as follows.First, the results of several benchmark regression and its expansion models show that the Internet transformation of enterprises has a significant role in improving the innovation capacity of both exporting and non-exporting Chinese enterprises. Furthermore, the innovation capacity of Chinese enterprises is obviously different before and after their internetization, and enterprise internetization has a stronger role in promoting innovation capacity with the passage of time. This shows that the integration of manufacturing enterprises and the Internet is an important channel to improve the innovation capacity of enterprises.Second, regressions incorporating enterprise heterogeneities show that enterprise internetization promotes the innovation capacity of Chinese enterprises, and this effect is universal. Specifically, from the perspective of enterprise nature, enterprise internetization plays a more significant role in non-state-owned enterprises for promoting the innovation capacity of enterprises than in state-owned enterprises. Meanwhile, low-productivity enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises can also enhance their innovation capacities through enterprise internetization. From the perspective of industry, the enterprise internetization can promote enterprise innovation in both high-tech industry and low-tech industry, and regardless of how competitive the industry is.Third, the three ways of enterprise internetization not only have a significant role in promoting enterprise innovation, but also have a significant direct promoting effect on enterprises’ exporting activities. In addition, the three ways of enterprise internetization can indirectly promote the export of enterprises through the intermediary channel of enterprise innovation. These effects are also significant in low-productivity enterprises actively participating in the internetization. This shows that the integration of manufacturing enterprises and the Internet needs to take the innovation initiative of enterprises as a bridge, and enterprise internetization can stimulate the enthusiasm of enterprises for export.Our contributions are as follows.(1) We introduce the innovation choice behavior of enterprises into the Bustos(2011) model and reveal the internal mechanism through which the choice of Internet technology affects the innovation and export behavior of enterprises using mathematical models.(2) We use micro data to find that enterprise internetization has a significant role in promoting the innovation capacity of Chinese enterprises. While having significant roles in directly promoting the innovation and export of Chinese enterprises, the three ways of enterprise internetization also indirectly promote the export of enterprises through affecting the innovation choice behavior of enterprises.(3) We collect enterprise social network data through crawler to construct the level of enterprise internetization which is closer to the current Internet application scenario. These data can better reflect the degree of coupling of enterprise internal operation and external business activities with the Internet, which is a perfection of the existing Internet index. Our findings suggest that the government needs to take different treatment measures when encouraging manufacturing enterprises to condT